Add documentation for secret types (#23825)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/configuration/secret.md

is safer and more flexible than putting it verbatim in a
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pod" >}} definition or in a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="container image" term_id="image" >}}.
See [Secrets design document](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/design-proposals/auth/secrets.md) for more information.

<!-- body -->

## Overview of Secrets

A Secret is an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data such as
a password, a token, or a key. Such information might otherwise be put in a
Pod specification or in an image. Users can create Secrets and the system
also creates some Secrets.

To use a Secret, a Pod needs to reference the Secret.
A Secret can be used with a Pod in three ways:

- As [files](#using-secrets-as-files-from-a-pod) in a
  {{< glossary_tooltip text="volume" term_id="volume" >}} mounted on one or more of
  its containers.
- As [container environment variable](#using-secrets-as-environment-variables).
- By the [kubelet when pulling images](#using-imagepullsecrets) for the Pod.

The name of a Secret object must be a valid
[DNS subdomain name](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names#dns-subdomain-names).

> You can specify the `data` and/or the `stringData` field when creating a

Reviewer: nit: Is is `data` or `stringData`?

Author: Yes. These two fields can be set individually and they can be set together.

Reviewer: nit: You can specify the `data` and `stringData` fields when creating a ...

Reviewer: nit: The values for all keys in the `data` field must be base64-encoded strings.

> configuration file for a Secret.  Both these two fields are optional.

Reviewer: nit: These fields are optional.

Author: OK.

the [`Secret`](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#secret-v1-core)
resource, or certain equivalent `kubectl` command line flags (if available).
The Secret type is used to facilitate programmatic handling of the Secret data.

Kubernetes provides several builtin types for some common usage scenarios.
These types vary in terms of the validations performed and the constraints
Kubernetes imposes on them.

| Builtin Type | Usage |
|--------------|-------|
| `Opaque`     |  arbitrary user-defined data |
| `kubernetes.io/service-account-token` | service account token |
| `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` | serialized `~/.dockercfg` file |
| `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` | serialized `~/.docker/config.json` file |
| `kubernetes.io/basic-auth` | credentials for basic authentication |
| `kubernetes.io/ssh-auth` | credentials for SSH authentication |
| `kubernetes.io/tls` | data for a TLS client or server |
| `bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token` | bootstrap token data |

You can define and use your own Secret type by assigning non-empty string as the
`type` value for a Secret object. An empty string is treated as `Opaque`.

> Kubernetes doesn't impose any contstraints on the type name you choose. But if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes doesn't impose any constraints on type names. However, if
```
?

Author: done.

> you are using one of the builtin types listed above, you will have to meet all

Reviewer: nit: could remove the word "above" in "listed above"

the requirements defined for that type.

#### Opaque Secrets

`Opaque` is the default Secret type if omitted from a Secret configuration file.
When you create a Secret from the `kubectl` command line, it corresponds to
the `generic` subcommand. For example, the following command creates an empty
Secret of type `Opaque`.

```shell
kubectl create secret generic empty-secret
kubectl get secret empty-secret
```

The output looks like:

```
NAME           TYPE     DATA   AGE
empty-secret   Opaque   0      2m6s
```

The `DATA` column shows the number of data items stored in the Secret.
In this case, `0` means we have just created an empty Secret.

####  Service account token Secrets

A `kubernetes.io/service-account-token` type of Secret is used to store a
token that identifies a service acccount. When using this Secret type, you need
to ensure that the `kubernetes.io/service-account.name` annotation is set to an
existing service account name. An Kubernetes controller will fill in some other
fields such as the `kubernetes.io/service-account.uid` annotation and the
`token` key in the `data` field set to actual token content.

> The following YAML is an example config for a service account token Secret:

Reviewer: nit: The following example configuration declares a service account token Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-sa-sample
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/service-account.name: "sa-name"
type: kubernetes.io/service-account-token
data:
  # You can include additional key value pairs as you do with Opaque Secrets
  extra: YmFyCg==
```

In fact, when creating a Pod, Kubernetes automatically creates a service

> account Secret which contain credentials for accessing the API and

Reviewer: nit: could simplify
When creating a Pod, Kubernetes automatically creates a service account Secret and
automatically modifies your Pod to use this secret. The service account Secret contains
credentials for accessing the API.

automatically modifies your Pod to use this secret.

The automatic creation and use of API credentials can be disabled or
overridden if desired. However, if all you need to do is securely access the
API server, this is the recommended workflow.

See the [ServiceAccount](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
documentation for more information on how service accounts work.
You can also check the `automountServiceAccountToken` field and the
`serviceAccountName` field of the
[`Pod`](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#secret-v1-core)
for information on referencing service account from Pods.

> #### Docker config Secrets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Container image registry Secrets
```

Author: This should be kept as Docker config secrets because the config file can contain things other than image pull secrets.

You can use one of the following `type` values to create a Secret to
store the credentials for accessing a Docker registry for images.

- `kubernetes.io/dockercfg`
- `kubernetes/dockerconfigjson`

The `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` type is reserved to store a serialized
`~/.dockercfg` which is the legacy format for configuring Docker command line.
When using this Secret type, you have to ensure the Secret `data` field
contains a `.dockercfg` key whose value is content of a `~/.dockercfg` file
encoded in the base64 format.

The `kubernetes/dockerconfigjson` type is designed for storing a serialized

> JSON that follows the same format rulse as the `~/.docker/config.json` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JSON that follows the same format rules as the `~/.docker/config.json` file
```

Author: done.

When using this type of Secret, the `tls.key` and the `tls.crt` key must be provided
in the `data` (or `stringData`) field of the Secret configuration, although the API
server doesn't actually validate the values for each key.

The following YAML contains an example config for a TLS Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-tls
type: kubernetes.io/tls
data:
  tls.crt: |
    MIIC2DCCAcCgAwIBAgIBATANBgkqh ... (rest of the cert)
  tls.key: |
    MIIEpgIBAAKCAQEA7yn3bRHQ5FHMQ ... (rest of the key)
```

The TLS Secret type is provided for user's convenience. You can create an `Opaque`
for credentials used for TLS server and/or client.  However, using the builtin Secret
type helps ensure the consistency of Secret format in your project; the API server
does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret configuration.

When creating a TLS Secret from the `kubectl` command line, you can use the
`tls` subcommand as shown in the following example:

```shell
kubectl create secret tls my-tls-secret \
  --cert=path/to/cert/file \
  --key=path/to/key/file
```

The public/private key pair must exist before hand. The public key certificate

> for `--cert` must be .PEM encoded and match the given private key for `--key`.

Reviewer 2: Possibly:
```suggestion
for `--cert` must be PEM encoded (Base64-encoded DER format), and match the given private key for `--key`.
```
or with more detail about the expected format:
```suggestion
for `--cert` must be PEM encoded (Base64-encoded DER format), and match the given private key for `--key`.
The private key must be in what  is commonly called PEM private key format, unencrypted.
In both cases, the initial and last lines from PEM (for example: `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and
`-----END CERTIFICATE-----` for a certificate) are *not* included.
```

Author: The exclusion of the first and the last line doesn't look like something a user wants/needs to know. It is a common practice. However, including this detail doesn't hurt. I'm adding these lines.

  used for. Optional.
- `expiration`: An absolute UTC time using RFC3339 specifying when the token
  should be expired. Optional.
- `usage-bootstrap-<usage>`: A boolean flag indicating additional usage for
  the bootstrap token.
- `auth-extra-groups`: A comma-separated list of group names that will be
  authenticated as in addition to system:bootstrappers group.

The above YAML may look confusing because the values are all in base64 encoded
strings. In fact, the same Secret can be created using the following YAML
which results in an identical Secret object:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  # Note how the Secret is named
  name: bootstrap-token-5emitj
  # A bootstrap token Secret usually resides in the kube-system namespace
  namespace: kube-system
type: bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token
stringData:
  auth-extra-groups: "system:bootstrappers:kubeadm:default-node-token"
  expiration: "2020-09-13T04:39:10Z"
  # This token ID is used in the name
  token-id: "5emitj"
  token-secret: "kq4gihvszzgn1p0r"
  # This token can be used for authentication
  usage-bootstrap-authentication: "true"
  # and it can be used for signing

>   usage-bootstrap-signing: "true"

Reviewer 2: How about listing this example first?

Author: I think we should give the `data` example before the `stringData` example because:

- `stringData` is a new thing, relatively.
- in real practices, people are more likely to use some tools to generate these Secret data rather than manually type in the content. In other words, base64 encoded format sounds like something users are already using.

- As [container environment variable](#using-secrets-as-environment-variables).
- By the [kubelet when pulling images](#using-imagepullsecrets) for the Pod.

The name of a Secret object must be a valid
[DNS subdomain name](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names#dns-subdomain-names).
You can specify the `data` and/or the `stringData` field when creating a
configuration file for a Secret.  The `data` and the `stringData` fields are optional.
The values for all keys in the `data` field have to be base64-encoded strings.
If the conversion to base64 string is not desirable, you can choose to specify
the `stringData` field instead, which accepts arbitrary strings as values.

The keys of `data` and `stringData` must consist of alphanumeric characters,
`-`, `_` or `.`. All key-value pairs in the `stringData` field are internally
merged into the `data` field. If a key appears in both the `data` and the
`stringData` field, the value specified in the `stringData` field takes
precedence.

### Secret Types

When creating a Secret, you can specify its type using the `type` field of
the [`Secret`](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#secret-v1-core)

> resource, or certain equivalent `kubectl` command line flags (if available).

Reviewer: When creating a Secret, you can specify its type using the `type` field ..., or `kubectl` command flags [such as ...].

Author: No. Not all secret types have a `kubectl` command line support.

The Secret type is used to facilitate programmatic handling of the Secret data.

Kubernetes provides several builtin types for some common usage scenarios.
These types vary in terms of the validations performed and the constraints
Kubernetes imposes on them.

| Builtin Type | Usage |
|--------------|-------|
| `Opaque`     |  arbitrary user-defined data |
| `kubernetes.io/service-account-token` | service account token |
| `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` | serialized `~/.dockercfg` file |
| `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` | serialized `~/.docker/config.json` file |
| `kubernetes.io/basic-auth` | credentials for basic authentication |
| `kubernetes.io/ssh-auth` | credentials for SSH authentication |
| `kubernetes.io/tls` | data for a TLS client or server |
| `bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token` | bootstrap token data |

> You can define and use your own Secret type by assigning non-empty string as the

Reviewer: nit: You can define and use your own Secret type by assigning a non-empty string ...

Author: Done

> `type` value for a Secret object. An empty string is treated as `Opaque`.

Reviewer: An empty string is treated as an `Opaque` type?

Author: Yes.

Kubernetes doesn't impose any constraints on the type name. However,

> if you are using one of the builtin types, you will have to meet all the

Reviewer: Replace "you will have to meet" with "you must meet"

Author: done

requirements defined for that type.

> #### Opaque Secrets

Reviewer: Could these headings change to level H3? I'd like to see the section heading in the TOC.

Author: It doesn't make much sense to make this and the other secret type into H3.
I'll change it anyway and let's see if it looks better.

`Opaque` is the default Secret type if omitted from a Secret configuration file.

> When you create a Secret from the `kubectl` command line, it corresponds to

Reviewer: nit: When you create a Secret using `kubectl`, ...
What is "it corresponds to ..."?

Author: yes.

the `generic` subcommand. For example, the following command creates an empty
Secret of type `Opaque`.

```shell
kubectl create secret generic empty-secret
kubectl get secret empty-secret
```

The output looks like:

```
NAME           TYPE     DATA   AGE
empty-secret   Opaque   0      2m6s
```

The `DATA` column shows the number of data items stored in the Secret.
In this case, `0` means we have just created an empty Secret.

####  Service account token Secrets

A `kubernetes.io/service-account-token` type of Secret is used to store a

> token that identifies a service acccount. When using this Secret type, you need

Reviewer: nit: spelling, s/acccount/account/

Author: Done

to ensure that the `kubernetes.io/service-account.name` annotation is set to an

> existing service account name. An Kubernetes controller will fill in some other

Reviewer: A Kubernetes controller fills in

Author: done.

fields such as the `kubernetes.io/service-account.uid` annotation and the
`token` key in the `data` field set to actual token content.

The following example configuration declares a service account token Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-sa-sample
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/service-account.name: "sa-name"
type: kubernetes.io/service-account-token
data:
  # You can include additional key value pairs as you do with Opaque Secrets
  extra: YmFyCg==
```

> When creating a Pod, Kubernetes automatically creates a service account Secret

Reviewer: lowercase or leave as is?

Reviewer: Does Kubernetes create a "ServiceAccount"?

Author: Yes, it does.

encoded in the base64 format.

The `kubernetes/dockerconfigjson` type is designed for storing a serialized
JSON that follows the same format rules as the `~/.docker/config.json` file
which is a new format for `~/.dockercfg`.
When using this Secret type, the `data` field of the Secret object must
contain a `.dockerconfigjson` key, in which the content for the
`~/.docker/config.json` file is provided as a base64 encoded string.

Below is an example for a `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` type of Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-dockercfg
type: kubernetes.io/dockercfg
data:
  .dockercfg: |
    "<base64 encoded ~/.dockercfg file>"
```

{{< note >}}
If you do not want to perform the base64 encoding, you can choose to use the
`stringData` field instead.
{{< /note >}}

Note that when creating these types of Secrets using a config file, the API
server checks whether the expected key does exists in the `data` field, and
it verifies if the value provided can be parsed as a valid JSON. The API
server doesn't validate if the JSON actually is a Docker config file.

When you do not have a Docker config file, or you want to use `kubectl`

> command line to create a Docker registry Secret, you can do:

Reviewer: nit: Could remove "command line" in "you want to use `kubectl` ..."

Author: alright.

```shell
kubectl create secret docker-registry secret-tiger-docker \
  --docker-username=tiger \
  --docker-password=pass113 \
  --docker-email=tiger@acme.com
```

This command will create a Secret of type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson`.
If you dump the `.dockerconfigjson` content from the `data` field, you will

> get the following JSON content which is a valid Docker config created on the

Reviewer: s/config/configuration/

Author: "docker config" has almost become a new term, but ... anyway.

course, provide the clear text content using the `stringData` for Secret
creation.

The following YAML is an example config for a basic authentication Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-basic-auth
type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
stringData:
  username: admin
  password: t0p-Secret
```

The basic authentication Secret type is provided only for user's convenience.
You can create an `Opaque` for credentials used for basic authentication.
However, using the builtin Secret type helps unify the formats of your credentials
and the API server does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret
configuration.

#### SSH authentication Secrets

The builtin type `kubernetes.io/ssh-auth` is provided for storing data used in
SSH authentication. When using this Secret type, you will have to specify a
`ssh-privatekey` key-value pair in the `data` (or `stringData`) field.
as the SSH credential to use.

The following YAML is an example config for a SSH authentication Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-ssh-auth
type: kubernetes.io/ssh-auth
data:
  ssh-privatekey: |

>      MIIEpQIBAAKCAQEAulqb/Y ... (rest of the data)

Reviewer: nit: I think you can end line 264 with the three dots or possibly add a comment such as:
```
# Key is abbreviated in this example
```

```

> The SSH authentication Secret type is provided only for user's convenience.

Reviewer: Does line 267 add value? " ... is provided only for a user's convenience"

Author: Yes. I believe so.

You can create an `Opaque` for credentials used for SSH authentication.
However, using the builtin Secret type helps unify the formats of your credentials
and the API server does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret
configuration.

#### TLS Secrets

Kubernetes provides a builtin Secret type `kubernetes.io/tls` for to storing
information about a TLS client or server. This data is primarily used with TLS
termination of the Ingress resource, but may be used in other types.
When using this type of Secret, the `tls.key` and the `tls.crt` key must be provided
in the `data` (or `stringData`) field of the Secret configuration, although the API
server doesn't actually validate the values for each key.

> The following YAML contains an example config for a TLS Secret:

Reviewer: s/config/configuration/

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-tls
type: kubernetes.io/tls
data:
  tls.crt: |
    MIIC2DCCAcCgAwIBAgIBATANBgkqh ... (rest of the cert)

>   tls.key: |

Reviewer: See previous note about adding a comment in the manifest.

Author: done.

    MIIEpgIBAAKCAQEA7yn3bRHQ5FHMQ ... (rest of the key)
```

> The TLS Secret type is provided for user's convenience. You can create an `Opaque`

Reviewer: Is this important to mention:
`The TLS Secret type is provided for user's convenience`

Author: Yes. I believe it is important to mention that to store TLS credentials in a Secret, you do NOT have to use the _TLS Secret type_.

for credentials used for TLS server and/or client.  However, using the builtin Secret
type helps ensure the consistency of Secret format in your project; the API server
does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret configuration.

> When creating a TLS Secret from the `kubectl` command line, you can use the

Reviewer: nit:
When creating a TLS Secret using `kubectl`, ...
OR something like:
You can run `kubectl` with the `tls` sub-command to create a Secret. For example:

`tls` subcommand as shown in the following example:

```shell
kubectl create secret tls my-tls-secret \
  --cert=path/to/cert/file \
  --key=path/to/key/file
```

> The public/private key pair must exist before hand. The public key certificate

Reviewer: nit: two spaces before "The public ..."

Author: I believe there was a guideline that says don't put two spaces between sentences.
Twenty years ago, my English grammar teacher taught us: capital letter, two spaces and period.

Kubernetes Secrets let you store and manage sensitive information, such
as passwords, OAuth tokens, and ssh keys. Storing confidential information in a Secret
is safer and more flexible than putting it verbatim in a
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pod" >}} definition or in a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="container image" term_id="image" >}}.
See [Secrets design document](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/design-proposals/auth/secrets.md) for more information.

<!-- body -->

> ## Overview of Secrets

Author: Although irrelevant to this PR (adding secret types) ... I can merge the paragraph into the page introduction if that looks any better.

- As [files](#using-secrets-as-files-from-a-pod) in a
  {{< glossary_tooltip text="volume" term_id="volume" >}} mounted on one or more of
  its containers.
- As [container environment variable](#using-secrets-as-environment-variables).
- By the [kubelet when pulling images](#using-imagepullsecrets) for the Pod.

The name of a Secret object must be a valid
[DNS subdomain name](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names#dns-subdomain-names).
You can specify the `data` and/or the `stringData` field when creating a
configuration file for a Secret.  The `data` and the `stringData` fields are optional.
The values for all keys in the `data` field have to be base64-encoded strings.
If the conversion to base64 string is not desirable, you can choose to specify
the `stringData` field instead, which accepts arbitrary strings as values.

The keys of `data` and `stringData` must consist of alphanumeric characters,
`-`, `_` or `.`. All key-value pairs in the `stringData` field are internally
merged into the `data` field. If a key appears in both the `data` and the
`stringData` field, the value specified in the `stringData` field takes
precedence.

> ### Secret Types

Author: OK

The automatic creation and use of API credentials can be disabled or
overridden if desired. However, if all you need to do is securely access the
API server, this is the recommended workflow.

See the [ServiceAccount](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
documentation for more information on how service accounts work.
You can also check the `automountServiceAccountToken` field and the
`serviceAccountName` field of the
[`Pod`](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#secret-v1-core)
for information on referencing service account from Pods.

#### Docker config Secrets

You can use one of the following `type` values to create a Secret to
store the credentials for accessing a Docker registry for images.

- `kubernetes.io/dockercfg`
- `kubernetes/dockerconfigjson`

The `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` type is reserved to store a serialized
`~/.dockercfg` which is the legacy format for configuring Docker command line.
When using this Secret type, you have to ensure the Secret `data` field
contains a `.dockercfg` key whose value is content of a `~/.dockercfg` file
encoded in the base64 format.

> The `kubernetes/dockerconfigjson` type is designed for storing a serialized

Author: nice catch.

JSON that follows the same format rules as the `~/.docker/config.json` file
which is a new format for `~/.dockercfg`.
When using this Secret type, the `data` field of the Secret object must
contain a `.dockerconfigjson` key, in which the content for the
`~/.docker/config.json` file is provided as a base64 encoded string.

Below is an example for a `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` type of Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-dockercfg
type: kubernetes.io/dockercfg
data:
  .dockercfg: |
    "<base64 encoded ~/.dockercfg file>"
```

{{< note >}}
If you do not want to perform the base64 encoding, you can choose to use the
`stringData` field instead.
{{< /note >}}

> Note that when creating these types of Secrets using a config file, the API

Author: OK.

server checks whether the expected key does exists in the `data` field, and
it verifies if the value provided can be parsed as a valid JSON. The API
server doesn't validate if the JSON actually is a Docker config file.

When you do not have a Docker config file, or you want to use `kubectl`
to create a Docker registry Secret, you can do:

```shell
kubectl create secret docker-registry secret-tiger-docker \
  --docker-username=tiger \
  --docker-password=pass113 \
  --docker-email=tiger@acme.com
```

This command will create a Secret of type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson`.
If you dump the `.dockerconfigjson` content from the `data` field, you will
get the following JSON content which is a valid Docker configuration created

> on the fly:

Author: No. Docker configuration file is not always `kubectl` created.

```json
{
  "auths": {
    "https://index.docker.io/v1/": {
      "username": "tiger",
      "password": "pass113",
      "email": "tiger@acme.com",
      "auth": "dGlnZXI6cGFzczExMw=="
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Basic authentication Secret

Author: Never seen such definition anywhere.

> ### Basic authentication Secret

Reviewer 2: See eg https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication#Basic_authentication_scheme

> ### Basic authentication Secret

Reviewer 2: `Basic` is the name, but it's specifically for HTTP. You don't use Basic with (eg) IMAP.

and the API server does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret
configuration.

### SSH authentication secrets

The builtin type `kubernetes.io/ssh-auth` is provided for storing data used in
SSH authentication. When using this Secret type, you will have to specify a
`ssh-privatekey` key-value pair in the `data` (or `stringData`) field.
as the SSH credential to use.

The following YAML is an example config for a SSH authentication Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-ssh-auth
type: kubernetes.io/ssh-auth
data:
  # the data is abbreviated in this example
  ssh-privatekey: |
     MIIEpQIBAAKCAQEAulqb/Y ...
```

The SSH authentication Secret type is provided only for user's convenience.
You can create an `Opaque` for credentials used for SSH authentication.
However, using the builtin Secret type helps unify the formats of your credentials
and the API server does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret
configuration.

### TLS secrets

Kubernetes provides a builtin Secret type `kubernetes.io/tls` for to storing
information about a TLS client or server. This data is primarily used with TLS

> termination of the Ingress resource, but may be used in other types.

Author: OK.

in the `data` (or `stringData`) field of the Secret configuration, although the API
server doesn't actually validate the values for each key.

The following YAML contains an example config for a TLS Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-tls
type: kubernetes.io/tls
data:
  # the data is abbreviated in this example
  tls.crt: |
    MIIC2DCCAcCgAwIBAgIBATANBgkqh ...
  tls.key: |
    MIIEpgIBAAKCAQEA7yn3bRHQ5FHMQ ...
```

The TLS Secret type is provided for user's convenience. You can create an `Opaque`
for credentials used for TLS server and/or client. However, using the builtin Secret
type helps ensure the consistency of Secret format in your project; the API server
does verify if the required keys are provided in a Secret configuration.

When creating a TLS Secret using `kubectl`, you can use the `tls` subcommand
as shown in the following example:

```shell
kubectl create secret tls my-tls-secret \
  --cert=path/to/cert/file \
  --key=path/to/key/file
```

The public/private key pair must exist before hand. The public key certificate
for `--cert` must be .PEM encoded (Base64-encoded DER format), and match the
given private key for `--key`.

> The private key must be in what is commonly called PEM private key format,

Reviewer 2: I checked into this a bit more

The Base64 encoding is part of the way that Secret is implemented and serialized, not of the file contents. So the data are actually [DER](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.690#DER_encoding) encoded, right?

(if you take DER format data, base64 encode it, and add `--------BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` type lines, you get PEM - but that's not what we have here).

Author: In Kubernetes, I never saw any docs mentioning DER.

Reviewer 2: So, it definitely is DER (if this is not accurate please correct my understanding) but I can see why people think it's PEM: PEM is DER with base64 encoding with special text before and after it.

I don't mind telling people that if they have a `.pem` file they need only omit the first and last lines and indent it to get the text they can put into the manifest. That's helpful. Let's also make it clear that base64 encoding is applied by Kubernetes and make sure people don't take a PEM file (already base64 encoded from DER) and add a second lot of base64 encoding.
If this guidance is controversial I can save it for a later PR.

unencrypted. In both cases, the initial and the last lines from PEM (for
example, `--------BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and `-------END CERTIFICATE----` for
a cetificate) are *not* included.

### Bootstrap token Secrets

A bootstrap token Secret can be created by explicitly specifying the Secret
`type` to `bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token`. This type of Secret is designed for
tokens used during the node bootstrap process. It stores tokens used to sign

> well known ConfigMaps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
well known {{< glossary_tooltip text="ConfigMaps" term_id="configmap" >}}.
```

A bootstrap token Secret is usually created in the `kube-system` namespace and
named in the form `bootstrap-token-<token-id>` where `<token-id>` is a 6 character
string of the token ID.

> The configuration file for a bootstrap token Secret may look like the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a Kubernetes manifest,  a bootstrap token Secret might look like the
```

Author: OK

following:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: bootstrap-token-5emitj
  namespace: kube-system
type: bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token
data:
  auth-extra-groups: c3lzdGVtOmJvb3RzdHJhcHBlcnM6a3ViZWFkbTpkZWZhdWx0LW5vZGUtdG9rZW4=
  expiration: MjAyMC0wOS0xM1QwNDozOToxMFo=
  token-id: NWVtaXRq
  token-secret: a3E0Z2lodnN6emduMXAwcg==
  usage-bootstrap-authentication: dHJ1ZQ==
  usage-bootstrap-signing: dHJ1ZQ==
```

A bootstrap type has the following keys specified under `data`:

- `token_id: A random 6 character string as the token identifier. Required.
- `token-secret`: A random 16 character string as the actual token secret. Required.
- `description1`: A human-readable string that describes what the token is
  used for. Optional.
- `expiration`: An absolute UTC time using RFC3339 specifying when the token
  should be expired. Optional.
- `usage-bootstrap-<usage>`: A boolean flag indicating additional usage for
  the bootstrap token.
- `auth-extra-groups`: A comma-separated list of group names that will be
  authenticated as in addition to system:bootstrappers group.

> The above YAML may look confusing because the values are all in base64 encoded

Reviewer 2: ```
The YAML-format manifest above may look confusing because the values are all in base64 encoded
```

> strings. In fact, the same Secret can be created using the following YAML
> which results in an identical Secret object:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
strings. In fact, you can create an identical Secret  using the following manifest:
```

- As [files](#using-secrets-as-files-from-a-pod) in a
  {{< glossary_tooltip text="volume" term_id="volume" >}} mounted on one or more of
  its containers.
- As [container environment variable](#using-secrets-as-environment-variables).
- By the [kubelet when pulling images](#using-imagepullsecrets) for the Pod.

The name of a Secret object must be a valid
[DNS subdomain name](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names#dns-subdomain-names).
You can specify the `data` and/or the `stringData` field when creating a
configuration file for a Secret.  The `data` and the `stringData` fields are optional.
The values for all keys in the `data` field have to be base64-encoded strings.
If the conversion to base64 string is not desirable, you can choose to specify
the `stringData` field instead, which accepts arbitrary strings as values.

The keys of `data` and `stringData` must consist of alphanumeric characters,
`-`, `_` or `.`. All key-value pairs in the `stringData` field are internally
merged into the `data` field. If a key appears in both the `data` and the
`stringData` field, the value specified in the `stringData` field takes
precedence.

> ### Types of Secret {#secret-types}

Reviewer 2: D'oh, one more thing (that's important for making the page structure obvious
```suggestion
## Types of Secret {#secret-types}
```

The following example configuration declares a service account token Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-sa-sample
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/service-account.name: "sa-name"
type: kubernetes.io/service-account-token
data:
  # You can include additional key value pairs as you do with Opaque Secrets
  extra: YmFyCg==
```

When creating a `Pod`, Kubernetes automatically creates a service account Secret
and automatically modifies your Pod to use this Secret. The service account token
Secret contains credentials for accessing the API.

The automatic creation and use of API credentials can be disabled or
overridden if desired. However, if all you need to do is securely access the
API server, this is the recommended workflow.

See the [ServiceAccount](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
documentation for more information on how service accounts work.
You can also check the `automountServiceAccountToken` field and the
`serviceAccountName` field of the
[`Pod`](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#secret-v1-core)
for information on referencing service account from Pods.

> #### Docker config Secrets

Reviewer: Should this heading be H3 instead of H4?
```suggestion
### Docker config Secrets
```

Author: Yes. You are right.

  used for. Optional.
- `expiration`: An absolute UTC time using RFC3339 specifying when the token
  should be expired. Optional.
- `usage-bootstrap-<usage>`: A boolean flag indicating additional usage for
  the bootstrap token.
- `auth-extra-groups`: A comma-separated list of group names that will be
  authenticated as in addition to system:bootstrappers group.

The above YAML may look confusing because the values are all in base64 encoded
strings. In fact, you can create an identical Secret using the following YAML
which results in an identical Secret object:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  # Note how the Secret is named
  name: bootstrap-token-5emitj
  # A bootstrap token Secret usually resides in the kube-system namespace
  namespace: kube-system
type: bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token
stringData:
  auth-extra-groups: "system:bootstrappers:kubeadm:default-node-token"
  expiration: "2020-09-13T04:39:10Z"
  # This token ID is used in the name
  token-id: "5emitj"
  token-secret: "kq4gihvszzgn1p0r"
  # This token can be used for authentication
  usage-bootstrap-authentication: "true"
  # and it can be used for signing
  usage-bootstrap-signing: "true"
```

> ### Creating a Secret

Reviewer: @tengqm . The changes look good.
I commented that one new heading level that should change?
Also, would you double check that the headings, "Creating a Secret" and "Editing a Secret" should
be level H2 instead of H3?

Author: Makes sense. Fixed.

example, `--------BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and `-------END CERTIFICATE----` for
a cetificate) are *not* included.

### Bootstrap token Secrets

A bootstrap token Secret can be created by explicitly specifying the Secret
`type` to `bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token`. This type of Secret is designed for
tokens used during the node bootstrap process. It stores tokens used to sign
well known ConfigMaps.

A bootstrap token Secret is usually created in the `kube-system` namespace and
named in the form `bootstrap-token-<token-id>` where `<token-id>` is a 6 character
string of the token ID.

As a Kubernetes manifest, a bootstrap token Secret might look like the
following:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: bootstrap-token-5emitj
  namespace: kube-system
type: bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token
data:
  auth-extra-groups: c3lzdGVtOmJvb3RzdHJhcHBlcnM6a3ViZWFkbTpkZWZhdWx0LW5vZGUtdG9rZW4=
  expiration: MjAyMC0wOS0xM1QwNDozOToxMFo=
  token-id: NWVtaXRq
  token-secret: a3E0Z2lodnN6emduMXAwcg==
  usage-bootstrap-authentication: dHJ1ZQ==
  usage-bootstrap-signing: dHJ1ZQ==
```

A bootstrap type has the following keys specified under `data`:

> - `token_id: A random 6 character string as the token identifier. Required.

Reviewer: nit: missing end back tick, `token_id`
Changes look good.
/lgtm

Author: done
